How to publish/host an static web application?
We need httpd server to host and make static web pages accessible to the external world across the network.
  
httpd server = are server program runs on a port no and allows the client applications to communicate with it using http protocol and serves static web pages out of a directory location.
  
HTTP protocol = Hypertext transfer protocol, it is an application layer protocol. It defines message structure and semantics enable 2 network applications to exchange hypertext markup across the web/network.
There are 2 types of messages are there in Http protocol.
  1. Http Request Message
  The Http request message contains 3 parts
    1.1 url, protocol version and request method (operation)
    1.2 header
    1.3 body
    
  2. Http Response Message
  Http Response message contains 3 parts
    2.1 status = indicating response from the server is success or failure
    2.2 header 
    2.3 body = response body to be rendered by the browser
    
There are total 9 operations are supported by http protocol
1. GET
2. POST
3. PUT
4. DELETE
5. HEAD
6. TRACE
7. OPTIONS
8. PATCH
9. CONNECT
out of which a web application supports only 2 operations which are GET/POST only.
  
GET = The client will send a HttpRequest Message with Method as Get requesting a resource from the server
POST = The client will send a http request message containing data in body with Method as Post asking the server to read the data perform operation and return response.
  
There are lot of vendors manufacturing and providing httpd servers in the market, few are opensource and few other are commercial. The most popular or well-known httpd servers are 
  1. apache2 httpd server
  2. ngnix

How to host an application and bind it over a dns name to make it accessible?
We can host an application and make it accessible in 2 levels 
1. within intra-network of an organization
2. over the internet making it accessible to the world.
  
#1. Within the intra-network of an organization
To host and make an application accessible within the organization we dont need to have
1. public ip address
2. public domain name
we need to take the local network ip address of the server computer on which httpd server is running and register with a local domainname within the intra-network dns registry or the local system dns registry to make it accessible.
  
Local System dns registry (linux):
goto /etc/hosts and make an entry of domain name with ip address to resolve

/etc/hosts
bakerystore  192.168.1.10

public hosting:
1. purchase an domain name from domain name provider
2. host your apache2 server on public ip address computer.
3. goto dns registry and make an entry of your domain name with public ip address of the machine



  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  









  
  