What is devops is all about?
devops is about fast-paced application development and delivery.

benefits:-
1. we are always ahead of competitors
2. high customer ROI (return of investment), this lead to more customer satisfaction and builds trust towards our services
3. brings down the overall cost of development and delivery of the application

How to improve development and delivery speed?
1. change in culture = work as one team called "DevOps" Team
2. adopt new tools and technologies while developing and delivering the application
  - every stage of the development delivery there are modern tools to be used for improving the speed.

developer:-
  1. understand requirements
  2. choose a programming language that better suites the nature of the application we are developing
  3. setup the development environment and install required set of software tools and libraries like
    - programming langauges
    - database servers
    - db schema scripts
    - application servers
  [change required]  
  In general either a developer by himself on his local development environment or an ops engineer would manually configure and install the software on the development machine
  - Installation and configuration of sofware tools manually are going to take lot of time and even error prone as well, this takes for each developer of the team nearly 5 - 10 days of time depends on the size and complexity of the project.
    The job of installation and configuration is not one-time per a developer, repeatedly during the time of working on the project due to various reason we might have re-install and configure the softwares.
    This loosely a great amount of time and contributes significantly to the overall cost of software manufacturing and delivery
  How can we avoid this problem?
    Now the devops engineer has to employ new tools and technologies to overcome the above problems.
      1. use virtualization technology for creating multiple parallel independent development environments so that developer can work across multiple projects of different environments by creating multiple virtual machines on the same computer
      2. we can setup or create these virtual machines by using iac (infrastructure automation tool) tools like vagrant
      3. we can use software configuration management tools like
        - ansible
        - puppet
        - chef
      for installation and configuration of the software tools and libraries
      
By using the above tools and technologies we can have a development environment ready for a developer in couple of minutes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Choose a process model for developing and delivery the software application
There are lot of process models available in the market
  - waterfall
  - interative/incremental process model
  - prototype
  - spiral
  - agile methodologies

use one of the agile methodology based process model only. many of the people chooses scrum as a process model.
What is scrum how do we develop and delivery a software application while using scrum model?

scrum works on a principle called "fast-fail".
develop only a part of the system where a failure can be tolerable and can get quickly away from it and can plan for next

The later we encounter the failure the damage is going to be very high. early detection of the failure lowers risk and manages the cost of deliverying the application.

sprint (2 - 4 weeks of duration) = time period in which we are working on a tasks. Each sprint is of fixed duration and same across the project
in this way we build/develop the projects over multiple sprints

product owner (business owner)
  = defines the requirements of the project/product we have to develop

sprint planning = pick the requirements that they can delivery within that sprint, a member can pick one requirement or multiple depends on the size. The requirements that are committed to be delivered as part of the sprint are called "User Stories".  
  developer 
  qa engineers
  devops engineers
  
  within the sprint a user story should be developed/tested/ready for demo to product owner
  product owner review the feature we built and say approved/rejected
  if rejected, delete the code and start working on it in next sprint
  if approved merge the code into final system and start working on next user story

scrum master = he monitors and manages the scrum team

3 people
 - product owner
 - scrum team/members
 - scrum master
how do we develop the project?
In sprints
  |-user stories = developers/qa/devops engineers
  |-developed/tested/demoed
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. During development we need to use lot of tools for facilitating the development.
  5.1 use source code repository management tool
  using source code repository management tool we can do collaborative application development between the members of the team
  There are many source code management repository tool softwares are available
    1. wincvs
    2. vss
    3. svn
    4. pvcs
    5. perforce
    6. git (only)
out of the above tools use git repository system only, because it supports agile based development methdology




  
  
  












































    
    


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  