What is devops?
Devops is a change in culture and adoption of new tools and technologies in developing and delivery a software application.

In order to understand the above definition of devops first we need to know how does a software application development and delivery happens, then we can easily understand devops.

What is a software development and delivery lifecycle?

Software application = A program developed by a software developer based on the requirements provided by an business organization or a business owner. Software application comprises of set of instructions written in a programming language which will be exected with inputs that provides desired output for the end-user.
Developer will develops the software application using a programming language.

Software Application Testing = Testing is the process of running the software application developed by the developers, and verify the system is working as per the requirements or not.
Quality Assurance Engineers (QA) are responsible conducting the testing for an application.

Software Application Release = 
To release a software application we deploy/deliver the application into production.
Production Environment = making the application accessible public to the world.

Operational Engineers are responsible for creating infrastructure and network aspects to run the application on production environment.

An application once developed will be tested and is released into the production which comprises of 3 stages
  1. development
  2. testing
  3. release

What people are involved in development and delivery of the application?
1. Developer
2. Quality Assurance Engineer
3. Ops Engineer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lets explore each of these people and what are their responsibilities in developing and delivering the software application in detail.

#1 developer = is responsible for developing the software application based on the requirements provided by the business team (or) business organization (or) owner

1.1 Developer develops the application in development environment.
  The machine that is assigned to the developer, on which he will install required set of software that is needed for developing the application is called "Development Environment".
1.2 developer has to use programming language in developing the application.
  - using programming languages like c, c++, java, .net, python, php developers will write instructions which can be executed to produce the outcome.
1.3 Developer has to use a process model in developing an application. 
What is a process model?
Process model is a pre-defined steps or standards that should be followed to successful develop and delivery an application. The process models are defined by the experts in the software engineering world and there are plenty of process models are there in the market. we need to choose the best model that will be fit for our project. Few of the process models are 
  1. waterfall model
  2. iterative model
  3. incremental
  4. spiral
  5. prototype model
  6. agile methodologies
    - scrum
    - kanbana
    





















    

























































