Application protocol:
Any 2 network applications wants to exchange the data over the network, they need to define standard message structure and semantics, so that those 2 applications can follow those rules in exchanging the data in an understandable format which is called "application protocol".
  
In the internet world, there are lot of applications being used to carry our daily activities like
1. browsing web 
HTTP protocol is the internet standard protocol used for browsing the web pages over the world wide web.
(Hyper text transfer protocol)

2. exchanging emails
There are multiple protocols available for exchanging the emails between the client and server
smtp = simple mail transfer protocol (initial protocol with less features)
pop3 = post office protocol
imap = internet mail access protocol (advanced)

3. file transfer (ftp) = for exchanging files between client computer and server computer
ftp = file transfer protocol

4. remote desktop = to connect another computer over a network connection
(rdp) = remote desktop protocol


For each of these application types to ensure vendor/platform interoperability there are pre-defined application protocols defined for each of these applications
For each the server programs that works on these standard protocols there are pre-defined port nos fixed to facilitate users to access the programs from client without using the port no

FTP: 20/21
SSH: 22
SMTP: 25
HTTP: 80
HTTPS: 443
POP3: 110
IMAP: 143
RDP: 3389
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any 2 programs want to communicate over the network they need standard application protocol (message structure and semantics). We can classify these 2 programs into server and client program
server program: runs on a port number
client program: connects to the server by specifying ip:port 
  
  
Different programs wants to exchange different data and has different operations to be performed, so every 2 programs should define their own application protocol to communicate.
There most commonly used applications are there in internet world, for them the standard application protocols are defined to achieve interoperability.
  Web Browsing (HTTP) (default: 80)
  Exchaning Email:
    SMTP: 25
    POP3: 110
    IMAP: 143
  File Transfer (FTP) (default: 20/21)    
  Remote Desktop (RDP) (default: 3389)    

If client wants to talk to the server program it has to use URL format which contains
schema://ip:port/resource

schema: protocol to be used for communicating, so that client program by looking at schema will create messages based on the protocol and send it to the server.
  
  













  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  














