1. Application Layer
2. Presentation Layer
3. Session Layer
4. Transport Layer
5. Network Layer
6. DataLink Layer
7. Physical Layer

1. Application Layer
defines standard messaging structure and semantics over which both the applications has to communicate

2. Presentation Layer
It presents the data to the lower-layers in sender side in transmittable format and receives the data and presents to the Application Layer to consume. It performs 3 responsibilities
  2.1 Data Conversion = converts character representation of data into bits/bytes
  2.2 Data Compression/DeCompression = bit reduction, to transfer quickly over the network
  2.3 Data Encryption/DeCryption = securing the data
  
3. Session Layer
End-To-End application communication will be managed by Session Layer. it does 2 responsibilities
  3.1 Authentication/Authorization
  3.2 Session Management
  
While transmitting the data, it will be broken down into smaller data packets for 2 reasons
  - avoid network congession and blocking other computers in using the network
  - retransmitting the lost data will be easy, we can retransmit the data packet we lost rather than the whole data again
  
  3.1 Authentication and Authorization
    Authentication: identifying the user who is trying to access the application in order to grant access. Client has to produce an username/password while accessing the application, so that server program can validate the username/password and allow the user to access the application.
      
    Authorization: is a role based access mechanism, there are multiple roles of users within the application exists, every user cannot perform all the operations.
    identifying the user role granting the permission to perform the operation is called authorization.
      
    Session layer helps the applications in keeping track of authentication/authorization information by storing at the session level, so that client programs dont need to reproduce the authentication data each time while trying to access within the Session.
      
  
  3.2 what is session management, what does it do?
    3.2.1 identify the data packets received and route them to the right application at the received end.
    3.2.2 resequencing the data into correct order to build back the original message will be takencare
    3.2.3 keeps track of number of data packets transmitted, received and pending end-end  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The above three layers we discussed are related to application implementation not related to data transfer.
    

#4 Transport Layer
The transport layer performs 3 responsibilities
1. Segmentation
2. Flow control
3. Error control
















  
  
  
